# Frequently Asked Questions

~~~
Created: James Gardner, 2016-02-14
Audience: Community
Maturity: Planning
~~~

If you have a question, please ask and we'll add it to the list and try to
answer it. If you aren't happy with and answer to a question, please get in
touch and let us know why - it might be that we've missed something important
that we can change!

## Who is involved in this project

OpenTrials started as a collaboration between Ben Goldacre and Open Knowledge,
but there are now lots of people involved. We have a respected [Advisory
Board](http://opentrials.net/advisory-board/), a Technical Team led by Paul
Walsh, James Gardner our Community Manager, and Emma Beer keeping us all on
track as Senior Project Manger.

There are also people from the wider community who are helping advise us and we
are talking to organisations about the possibility of them sharing previously
not-public data with us.

## There is already lots of public data, why do we need you?

There is *some* public data, but we'd like to see *all* the data and documents
that form the evidence-base of modern medicine.
[AllTrials](http://alltrials.net) is an organisation that explains why this is
needed.

Much of the information that is available in public registers or published
online is hard to find and not threaded together in one place to make it easily
accessible. Just as WikiPedia provided the infrastructure for people to put our
knowledge together in once place, OpenTrials will provide infrastrucutre that
allows the medical community to make research evidence available in one place.

This will hopefully mean more data will be published, more people will look at
it and we'll have better medicine as a result.

## Why is the project more likely to succeed than X, Y or Z

It is true that other communities have tried to tackle different parts of the
problem. We think we're the first to try to get *all* data and documents in one
place, and to do so in a community-sponsored open fashion, with the community
itself have the ability to get involved in the project and its governance.

We've got a great team of people who are used to working on open technology and
building open communities, and we're led by a well-known and well-respected
Principle Investigator in Ben Goldacre.

Perhaps most importantly, we think the timing is right for this and both the
public and industry demand it. The AllTrials campaign has made huge progress in
making the idea of publishing these documents the normal thing to do, so we're
want to provide the easiest place for providers to publish them, and the most
accessible place for doctors, patients, researchers and others to benefit from
them.

NOTE: If you've been involved in a related project in the past though, we'd
love to hear from you so we can build on your experiences and not re-invent the
wheel. We'd love to know what X, Y and Z actually are if we don't know about
them already!

## Shouldn't the researchers get the first chance to benefit from their data?

Yes, they should, but after they've done that they should publish it for
everyone else to benefit from too. Most organisations agree that 1 year is
enough time for them to do this.

## How many OKF staff are there now? Across how many countries?

## What about Linked Data?

At OpenTrials we're concentrating our efforts on encouraging members of the
community to publish their trial data and documents in a single place so
that people can find and use that data.

We also want to see all that data linked (in the sense that you can click
buttons to explore the data and documents over the web in a threaded way) and
to provide APIs that our community request for building useful apps with that
data (likely to be JSON over HTTP). See [Threaded
Data](http://blogs.biomedcentral.com/on-medicine/2011/04/13/threaded-publications-we-need-you-and-your-data-for-the-next-phase/)
to learn more.

*Linked Data* is also a technical term for a set of technologies including RDF
and SPARQL. Its value lies is in the fact that it makes data more accessible to
machines for automated reasoning.

We wouldn't want to miss out on the very real and immediate value of making
trial data and documents available to doctors, researchers and the public by
diverting too much time to more advanced techniques for machines at this stage.

We want to be driven by what our community need though, so if you need specific
data in linked data formats, or you have data to provide that is already
well-modelled with RDF, do get in touch with our technical team.

## How will you ensure data quality?

We're taking the approach recommended by Sir Tim Berners-Lee that has been
used in open governement data which is that initially, any data publicly
available is better than no data.

Over time, people will submit corrections, and more data will be made available
for compairisons, driving data quality further. We don't want to let initial
data quality concerns prevent us starting the cycle of publication and
improvement.

This is something we'll closely monitor though as the project evolves and any
issues that come up are raised.


##Â Breadth or Depth-First Population

